[docs] Adding content pages under "developing" section (#26816)
solana-labs/solana: docs/src/developing/intro/programs.md

Both types of programs run on top of the [Sealevel runtime](https://medium.com/solana-labs/sealevel-parallel-processing-thousands-of-smart-contracts-d814b378192), which is Solana's _parallel processing_ model that helps to enable the high transactions speeds of the blockchain.

## Key points

- Programs are essentially a special type of [Account](../programming-model/accounts.md) that is marked as "_executable_"
- Programs can own other Accounts
- Programs can only _change the data_ or _debit_ accounts they own
- Any program can _read_ or _credit_ another account
- Programs are considered stateless since the primary data stored in a program account is the its compiled BPF code
- Programs can be upgraded by their owner (see more on that below)

## Types of programs

The Solana blockchain has two types of programs:

- Native programs
- On chain programs

> ### On chain programs

Author: We could use either. But I agree, we should be consistent. I'll go with no hyphen since it is slightly easier to type

These user programmable programs, often referred to as "_smart contracts_" on other blockchains, are deployed directly to the blockchain for anyone to interact with and execute. Hence the name "on chain"!

In effect, "on chain programs" are any program that is not baked directly into the Solana cluster's core code (like the native programs discussed below).

> All these programs are collectively known as the [Solana Program Library](https://spl.solana.com/). And even though the Solana foundation and it's core engineers maintain a few of the on chain programs, any one can create or publish one. On chain programs can also be updated directly on the blockchain by the respective program's Account owner.

Reviewer: There's a lot more programs than just the Solana Program Library. SPL is simply a collection of example programs maintained by Solana Labs.

Author: I will update to make it clear that SPL is just the Solana maintained programs

### Native programs

> Native programs are a special handful of programs that are built directly into the core of the Solana blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Native programs are programs that are built directly into the core of the Solana blockchain.
```

> They are essential in the operation of validator nodes and clusters. These special programs

Reviewer: The native programs are not essential for the runtime. They are just core capabilities that are treated slightly different that on-chain programs

#### Examples of native programs include:

- [System Program](../runtime-facilities/programs.md#system-program): Create new accounts, transfer tokens, and more
- [BPF Loader Program](../runtime-facilities/programs.md#bpf-loader): Deploys, upgrades, and executes programs on chain
- [Vote program](../runtime-facilities/programs.md#vote-program): Create and manage accounts that track validator voting state and rewards.

## Executable

When a Solana program is deployed onto the network, it is marked as "executable" by the [BPF Loader Program](../runtime-facilities/programs.md#bpf-loader). This allows the Solana runtime to efficiently and properly execute the compiled program code.

## Upgradable

Unlike other blockchains, Solana programs can be upgraded after they are deployed to the network.

Native programs can only be upgraded as part of cluster updates when new software releases are made.

> On chain programs (aka "SPL programs") can be upgraded by the account that is marked as the "_owner_", which is usually the Solana account/address that deployed the program to begin with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On chain programs can be upgraded by the account that is marked as the "_Upgrade Authority_", which is usually the Solana account/address that deployed the program to begin with.
```
